<h2>Rap lyrics generation in German with GPT-2</h2> 
<blockquote>
Zuhause und Heimat<br>
Ich komme von der Wiege der Stadt<br>
und bleib nie sitzen<br>
Ich komme zu keiner Zeit wenn ich keine Antwort heebe<br>
doch bin doch kein Freund von mir<br>
weil ich schon zu oft im<br>
© GPT-2
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Kapitalismus ist der Teufel der am Block in dem Auto sitzt<br>
du machst auf die Welt auf<br>
Mach weiter den Weg nach dem ich es mir verdient hab<br>
Alles für die Straße oder für die Heimat<br>
Alles was du willst kannst<br>
© GPT-2
</blockquote>
<p>This project was done as a part of the seminar "Natural Language Processing" at the Free University of Berlin.
<h3>Dataset</h3> 
<p>For finetuning, the following <a href="https://huggingface.co/dbmdz/german-gpt2" target="_blank">German Rap Dataset</a> from Kaggle was used. It includes 700 files but after deleting empty files und duplicates, only <b>592</b> files were left.
<h3>Data cleaning</h3> 
<p>The dataset was cleaned from special characters, letter case was normalised according to a part of speech. All contractions were left as they are, so as not to spoil the rhyme because of additional syllables. Two training corpora were created. For the first one, the dataset was split into songs (<kbd><a href="https://github.com/valeriiabubela/NLP_rap_lyrics_de/blob/main/all_texts_cleaned.json" target="_blank">all_texts_cleaned.json</a></kbd>); for the second one - info refrains (<kbd><a href="https://github.com/valeriiabubela/NLP_rap_lyrics_de/blob/main/refrains.json" target="_blank">refrains.json</a></kbd>). Because of the typo in one block of code for refrains, all newlines were marked as "/n" instead of "\n" in the latter.
<p>→ <kbd><a href="https://github.com/valeriiabubela/NLP_rap_lyrics_de/blob/main/data_cleaning.ipynb" target="_blank">data_cleaning.ipynb</a></kbd>
<h3>GPT-2 finetuning</h3> 
<p><a href="https://huggingface.co/dbmdz/german-gpt2" target="_blank">German GPT-2 model</a> from Huggingface was finetuned with corpora mentioned above. Since models weight approx. 500 MB each, they were not added here. For the song-model, the dataset consisted of ≈ 600 items; the refrain-model was fed in with ≈ 3400 entities.
<p>→ <kbd><a href="https://github.com/valeriiabubela/NLP_rap_lyrics_de/blob/main/model_finetuning.ipynb" target="_blank">model_finetuning.ipynb</a></kbd>
<h3>Lyrics generation</h3> 
<p>Lyrics were generated with the help of <a href="https://huggingface.co/transformers/main_classes/pipelines.html#transformers.TextGenerationPipeline" target="_blank">TextGenerationPipeline</a> from Transformers.
<ul>
  <li><b>Form</b>: the song-model produces text which looks like prose; as for the refrain-model, the text can always be split using "/n" (which I inserted accidentally, as mentioned above) and has a verse-like form. Here I cannot speculate, whether the correct newline separators would have been kept by the model.</li>
  <li><b>Coherence</b>: the text produced by both models is sometimes coherent, and sometimes not. Neither of them performs perfectly in this aspect. Interestingly, both models are able to produce what looks like figures of speech. In the first quote in this file, <b>"Wiege der Stadt"</b> is obviously a metaphor. Here comes one example from the song-model where repetition and comparison can be observed in the phrase <b>"arm wie der Himmel"</b> although it is not a typical phrase for German.</li><p>
 <blockquote>
Zuhause und Heimat mit der Familie mit Freunden auch vor meinem Vater und den Großeltern immer wenn die Sonne nicht scheint ist dein Leben hart doch mein Glaube ist arm wie der Himmel weiß wie viel er verdient hat Meine Eltern und meine Mutter sind arm wie der Himmel
© GPT-2
</blockquote>
  <li><b>Rhyme</b>: no rhyming patterns can be observed in any of trained models. </li>
</ul>
<p>→ <kbd><a href="https://github.com/valeriiabubela/NLP_rap_lyrics_de/blob/main/text_generation.ipynb" target="_blank">text_generation.ipynb</a></kbd>
<p><i><b>Disclaimer</b>: in order not to ruin existing verses, no words were removed from the training dataset. It means that some obscene and/or offensive lyrics may be generated by the models. Generated text does not reflect my own opinions and views and is meant to be used for study purposes only.</i>
